docs/source/index.rst, before:

.. ceph-medic documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Tue Jun 27 14:32:23 2017.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

=================================================
ceph-medic -- Find common issues in Ceph clusters
=================================================

``ceph-medic`` is a very simple tool to run against a Ceph cluster to detect
common issues that might prevent correct functionality. It requires
non-interactive SSH access to accounts that can ``sudo`` without a password
prompt.

Installation
============

``ceph-medic`` supports a couple different installation methods:

shaman repos
------------

Every branch pushed to ceph-medic.git gets a rpm repo created and stored in
shaman.ceph.com. Currently, only rpm repos built for centos 7 are supported.

Browse https://shaman.ceph.com/repos/ceph-medic to find the available repos.

.. note::
   Shaman repos are only available for 2 weeks before they are automatically deleted.
   However, there should always be a repo available for the master branch of ``ceph-medic``.

``ceph-medic`` has dependencies on packages found in EPEL, so EPEL will need to be enabled.
There is also a dependancy on ``python-tambo`` which is not available in EPEL.

Follow these steps to install a centos 7 repo from shaman.ceph.com:

- Install the latest master shaman repo::

      wget https://shaman.ceph.com/api/repos/ceph-medic/master/latest/centos/7/repo -O /etc/yum.repos.d/ceph-medic.repo

- Install ``epel-release``::

      yum install epel-release

- Download and install a ``python-tambo`` rpm for version ``2.0``, one can be found here: https://copr-be.cloud.fedoraproject.org/results/ktdreyer/ceph-installer/epel-7-x86_64/00488036-python-tambo/ ::

      wget https://copr-be.cloud.fedoraproject.org/results/ktdreyer/ceph-installer/epel-7-x86_64/00488036-python-tambo/python-tambo-0.2.0-5.el7.centos.noarch.rpm
      rpm -ivh python-tambo-0.2.0-5.el7.centos.noarch.rpm``

- Install ``ceph-medic``::

      yum install ceph-medic

- Verify your install::

      ceph-medic --help

github
------
You can install directly from the source on github by following these steps:

- Clone the repository::

      git clone https://github.com/ceph/ceph-medic.git


- Change to the ``ceph-medic`` directory::

      cd ceph-medic

- Create and activate a python virtual environment::

      virtualenv venv
      source venv/bin/activate

- Install ceph-medic into the virtual environment::

      python setup.py install

``ceph-medic`` should now be installed and available in the virtualenv you just created.
Check your installation by running: ``ceph-medic --help``


Usage
=====

The basic usage of ``ceph-medic`` is to perform checks against a ceph cluster to identify potential issues with it's installation
or configuration. To do this you'd run the following command::

    ceph-medic --inventory /path/to/hosts --ssh-config /path/to/ssh_config check

Inventory
---------
``ceph-medic`` needs to know the nodes that exist in your ceph cluster before it can perform checks. The inventory (or ``hosts`` file)
is a typical Ansible inventory file and will be used to inform ``ceph-medic`` of the nodes in your cluster and their respective roles.
The following standard host groups are supported by ``ceph-medic``: ``mons``, ``osds``, ``rgws``, ``mdss``, ``mgrs`` and ``clients``.
An example ``hosts`` file would look like::

    [mons]
    mon0
    mon1

    [osds]
    osd0

    [mgrs]
    mgr0

The location of the ``hosts`` file can be passed into ``ceph-medic`` by using the ``--inventory`` cli option. e.g ``ceph-medic --inventory /path/to/hosts``

If the ``--inventory`` option is not defined ``ceph-medic`` will first look in the current working directory for a file named ``hosts``. If that file
does not exist it will look for ``/etc/ansible/hosts`` to be used as the inventory.

SSH Config
----------

All nodes in your ``hosts`` file must be configured to provide non-interactive SSH access to
accounts that can ``sudo`` without a password prompt.

.. note::
   This is the same ssh config required by ansible. If you've used ``ceph-ansible`` to deploy your
   cluster then your nodes are most likely already configured for this type of ssh access. If that
   is the case, using the same user that was performed the initial deployment would be easiest.

To provide your ssh config you must use the ``--ssh-config`` flag and give it a path to a file
that defines your ssh configuration. For example, a file like this is used to connect with a cluster
comprised of vagrant vms::

    Host mon0
      HostName 127.0.0.1
      User vagrant
      Port 2200
      UserKnownHostsFile /dev/null
      StrictHostKeyChecking no
      PasswordAuthentication no
      IdentityFile /Users/andrewschoen/.vagrant.d/insecure_private_key
      IdentitiesOnly yes
      LogLevel FATAL

    Host osd0
      HostName 127.0.0.1
      User vagrant
      Port 2201
      UserKnownHostsFile /dev/null
      StrictHostKeyChecking no
      PasswordAuthentication no
      IdentityFile /Users/andrewschoen/.vagrant.d/insecure_private_key
      IdentitiesOnly yes
      LogLevel FATAL

Logging
-------

By default ``ceph-medic`` sends complete logs to the current working directory. This log file is more
verbose than the output you see on the terminal. To change where these logs are created modify the default
value for ``--log-path`` in ``~/.cephmedic.conf``.

Running checks
--------------

To perform checks against your cluster use the ``check`` subcommand. This will perform a series of general checks
as well as checks specific to each daemon. Sample output from this command will look like::

    ceph-medic --ssh-config vagrant_ssh_config check
    Host: mgr0                  connection: [connected  ]
    Host: mon0                  connection: [connected  ]
    Host: osd0                  connection: [connected  ]
    Collection completed!

    =======================  Starting remote check session  ========================
    Version: 0.0.1    Cluster Name: "test"
    Total hosts: [3]
    OSDs:    1    MONs:    1     Clients:    0
    MDSs:    0    RGWs:    0     MGRs:       1

    ================================================================================

    ---------- managers ----------
     mgr0

    ------------ osds ------------
     osd0

    ------------ mons ------------
     mon0

    17 passed, 0 errors, on 4 hosts

Commit message:

doc: tambo is in epel-testing
... and it's a newer version (0.4.0) as well.

docs/source/index.rst, after:

.. ceph-medic documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Tue Jun 27 14:32:23 2017.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

=================================================
ceph-medic -- Find common issues in Ceph clusters
=================================================

``ceph-medic`` is a very simple tool to run against a Ceph cluster to detect
common issues that might prevent correct functionality. It requires
non-interactive SSH access to accounts that can ``sudo`` without a password
prompt.

Installation
============

``ceph-medic`` supports a couple different installation methods:

shaman repos
------------

Every branch pushed to ceph-medic.git gets a rpm repo created and stored in
shaman.ceph.com. Currently, only rpm repos built for centos 7 are supported.

Browse https://shaman.ceph.com/repos/ceph-medic to find the available repos.

.. note::
   Shaman repos are only available for 2 weeks before they are automatically deleted.
   However, there should always be a repo available for the master branch of ``ceph-medic``.

``ceph-medic`` has dependencies on packages found in EPEL, so EPEL will need to be enabled.
There is also a dependancy on ``python-tambo`` which is `still in epel-testing <https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-EPEL-2017-76ab6036a0>`_.

Follow these steps to install a centos 7 repo from shaman.ceph.com:

- Install the latest master shaman repo::

      wget https://shaman.ceph.com/api/repos/ceph-medic/master/latest/centos/7/repo -O /etc/yum.repos.d/ceph-medic.repo

- Install ``epel-release``::

      yum install epel-release

- Install tambo from epel-testing::

      yum --enablerepo=epel-testing install python-tambo

- Install ``ceph-medic``::

      yum install ceph-medic

- Verify your install::

      ceph-medic --help

github
------
You can install directly from the source on github by following these steps:

- Clone the repository::

      git clone https://github.com/ceph/ceph-medic.git


- Change to the ``ceph-medic`` directory::

      cd ceph-medic

- Create and activate a python virtual environment::

      virtualenv venv
      source venv/bin/activate

- Install ceph-medic into the virtual environment::

      python setup.py install

``ceph-medic`` should now be installed and available in the virtualenv you just created.
Check your installation by running: ``ceph-medic --help``


Usage
=====

The basic usage of ``ceph-medic`` is to perform checks against a ceph cluster to identify potential issues with it's installation
or configuration. To do this you'd run the following command::

    ceph-medic --inventory /path/to/hosts --ssh-config /path/to/ssh_config check

Inventory
---------
``ceph-medic`` needs to know the nodes that exist in your ceph cluster before it can perform checks. The inventory (or ``hosts`` file)
is a typical Ansible inventory file and will be used to inform ``ceph-medic`` of the nodes in your cluster and their respective roles.
The following standard host groups are supported by ``ceph-medic``: ``mons``, ``osds``, ``rgws``, ``mdss``, ``mgrs`` and ``clients``.
An example ``hosts`` file would look like::

    [mons]
    mon0
    mon1

    [osds]
    osd0

    [mgrs]
    mgr0

The location of the ``hosts`` file can be passed into ``ceph-medic`` by using the ``--inventory`` cli option. e.g ``ceph-medic --inventory /path/to/hosts``

If the ``--inventory`` option is not defined ``ceph-medic`` will first look in the current working directory for a file named ``hosts``. If that file
does not exist it will look for ``/etc/ansible/hosts`` to be used as the inventory.

SSH Config
----------

All nodes in your ``hosts`` file must be configured to provide non-interactive SSH access to
accounts that can ``sudo`` without a password prompt.

.. note::
   This is the same ssh config required by ansible. If you've used ``ceph-ansible`` to deploy your
   cluster then your nodes are most likely already configured for this type of ssh access. If that
   is the case, using the same user that was performed the initial deployment would be easiest.

To provide your ssh config you must use the ``--ssh-config`` flag and give it a path to a file
that defines your ssh configuration. For example, a file like this is used to connect with a cluster
comprised of vagrant vms::

    Host mon0
      HostName 127.0.0.1
      User vagrant
      Port 2200
      UserKnownHostsFile /dev/null
      StrictHostKeyChecking no
      PasswordAuthentication no
      IdentityFile /Users/andrewschoen/.vagrant.d/insecure_private_key
      IdentitiesOnly yes
      LogLevel FATAL

    Host osd0
      HostName 127.0.0.1
      User vagrant
      Port 2201
      UserKnownHostsFile /dev/null
      StrictHostKeyChecking no
      PasswordAuthentication no
      IdentityFile /Users/andrewschoen/.vagrant.d/insecure_private_key
      IdentitiesOnly yes
      LogLevel FATAL

Logging
-------

By default ``ceph-medic`` sends complete logs to the current working directory. This log file is more
verbose than the output you see on the terminal. To change where these logs are created modify the default
value for ``--log-path`` in ``~/.cephmedic.conf``.

Running checks
--------------

To perform checks against your cluster use the ``check`` subcommand. This will perform a series of general checks
as well as checks specific to each daemon. Sample output from this command will look like::

    ceph-medic --ssh-config vagrant_ssh_config check
    Host: mgr0                  connection: [connected  ]
    Host: mon0                  connection: [connected  ]
    Host: osd0                  connection: [connected  ]
    Collection completed!

    =======================  Starting remote check session  ========================
    Version: 0.0.1    Cluster Name: "test"
    Total hosts: [3]
    OSDs:    1    MONs:    1     Clients:    0
    MDSs:    0    RGWs:    0     MGRs:       1

    ================================================================================

    ---------- managers ----------
     mgr0

    ------------ osds ------------
     osd0

    ------------ mons ------------
     mon0

    17 passed, 0 errors, on 4 hosts
